Different Strategy Overviews. So we're gonna start with buy to let then rent to rent because this is the predominant strategies we are gonna go in to and we're gonna utilise to make all the monies. So, you probably know most of this but I'm gonna do it anyway to make that you do because really important we know exactly what it is we're offering. So, again, the reason I've chosen these two strategies is because it works best with the 2Squared model and they're the ones you're gonna predominantly be selling as a deal sourcer and be taking on yourself as an investor. So, I'm just gonna go in to this very briefly and then in the other videos we're gonna go for the calculators and a load of other ways in which we can add value etc, etc. So what is a buy to let? Essentially, buy to let is when we buy a property specifically to let or rent to a tenant. So obviously it's the most well-known strategy there is. There's nothing special about it. However, buy to let can come in many, many different forms such as buy and hold. That's the normal buy to let, we buy the property on a mortgage. We rent it, sit there, it makes us money every month as long as the tenants are good and the letting agents are doing there job, it'll make us a little bit of cash. There's not gonna be a huge uplift, you haven't done anything that's just the standard buy and hold. you've then got buy, refurb, refinance. You'll find knobheads adding ours to this and buy, refurb, refinance, repeat. What's another one they put in there, I can't remember but yeah, they like to add ours in there just to make it seem like they're created tank new. So this is the art of increasing value of that buy to let which then means and this was the thing, by the way, that changes my life in terms of knowing how to make money in property. The ability to force the value of an asset up and then somebody lends to you on the new high value that you've created. So you buy a buy to let 100 grand, you spend. Actually you buy buy to let 90 grand, you spend 10, it's now worth 150 grand. You go to a bank "So I've got this house. I've just done a bit of work to it, can you do a valuation?" They go out, they value it. They go "Yes 150 grand. We can give you 75% of that." And then they do and then you've pulled all your money out and then you go again, and again, and again. So that's why I love property. It's insane that you can do that. So it's difficult, you're very rarely gonna get all money out but almost every time you're gonna get some money out probably refurb costs, worst case you're hoping for. The only thing is to point out that with the 2Squared is that we're not really doing that much. We're increasing the rents, yes but lenders won't lend you more. They won't see the value of a property be higher stupidly, in my opinion, because of the income being higher. because what they look at is, if you default and we have to take this property back, we're gonna put that in an auction as a single let and it's gonna get 450 Quid. I don't care whether you've got this 2Squared model which is the best thing since sliced bread and the blokey teaches it is a legend but we don't know anything about it and the fact you're making 800 not 450 is irrelevant because we're gonna have to chuck it in an auction to normal people who don't know the strategy. So they don't lend to it on that basis. So there's - you're gonna get a lot of investors that are gonna come to you and they're gonna say "cool what's it worth at the end?" And you'll say "about what you paid for it because we're not changing that much." You're buying it, in some cases, literally doing no refurb - zero. All we're doing and this is why it works great in potential high growth, hot areas what you can do is just go look cross rails coming in or this huge things being built or whatever it is try and find an area in your town which has potential of going up and people are looking at it as a place that will go up because when you sit there with your little single let, they've parked not that much money into it 25%, a little bit of fees, your fees and you're just giving them this huge return. So they're gonna get their money back from the rental not from the capital growth. However, like I say, capital growth can happen but the immediate forced growth that you normally get is unlikely using this strategy. So to give you a few examples on forcing value, so forcing value could be complete full refurb, lot extension getting an extra 2 bedrooms is. So you've gone from a 2-bed to a 4, you stuck an extension out the bat, there's another bedroom downstairs, you've got a 5-bed HMO. That will be commercially valued and they'll value that because it can't be turned into a family home again. It's a change of use, therefore, they will value it up. It could be as simple as just a full refurb - you've loft extended it, put a nice big extension on the back and it's now a really beautiful home for a family, that pushes the value up. Other ways we can do it that's generally the one change of use and the extending so making sure that your floor space is increasing is the best way to show a valuer. It's like "well we've doubled the space of this house so it should be worth double, right?" That's kind of the rules behind it. So property is amazing for that reason. It has forced capital appreciation where we put money in to it and we make, we either change it or improve and that forces the value up and we have complete control on that. You've got capital growth, we don't have control over capital growth but we can have a look at the indicators that will tell us whether or not a town or city is gonna go up in value naturally with you doing absolutely (XXX 619). Which is again, in your sleep, your house price is creeeping up. Every night you go to bed, your house price is a little bit higher than it was yesterday. We hope. And- and yeah. Just amazing and- and every ten years - every five - ten years, you can go to the bank and go "I reckon that's worth 30 percent more than it was five years ago." And I go "Yeah. Do you want some more money?" It's just crazy, honestly. When you start building this, it gets very, very exciting and then flip - flip's not really a buy to let investment. It's- it is what it is - it's a flip so you wouldn't or shouldn't use normal standard finance to buy a flip. Some people do and you'll get away with it once or twice. Continue to do it and then they're gonna- they're gonna flag that and they won't lend to you anymore and you don't really want to be honest. The other way some people do it is if they don't have a personal residence, they will buy the flip in their personal name as if they were going to move into it. Some do move into it. They'll do a refurb - improve it - flip it on for a profit and actually don't pay any taxes - their personal residence. So again, you're gonna get caught out if you do too many of them but then there are not rules to tell you how many times you can do that in one year. You can move six- every six months if you liked. It's gonna be a really- you're- it's gonna be a really stressful time. But you can do that and completely tax-free - no capital gains to pay if you were to do that. Flips normally- used to- back in the day - so or so I heard - I'm very young as well. You used to be able to go into a house - dilapidated, old person's house - new kitchen, new bathroom, paint and decorate, new flooring, jobs are golden, make 20, 30, 40 ,50 grand a pop. Now it is so difficult with the increased acquisition costs - acquisition is just buying, it makes it sound better.  Acquiring costs so stamp duty - at the moment, we're fine. I know this video. I keep doing time-sensitive things and these videos are going to be around forever. But as we stand because of Coronavirus, until March - end of March 2021, there is no stamp duty payable up to half a million Pounds. So it's gone a bit crazy in terms of the market because people are able to afford something they weren't before. So normally you're gonna have stamp duty. Stamp duty is massive and if it's your second home. So if you're buying it as a business, you pay an additional three percent on top of what could be three percent. So all of a sudden, you're buying a house at 100 grand and you've got a six percent fee on there. So all of a sudden, you're like "Doesn't sound like a lot of 6%, does it?" But £6,000 - you're going to have to pay out - that will never be seen again and you flip that on. You don't get that back. That's just gone. Six grand. So that has to be added to your refurb cost. So all of a sudden, these solicitors cost a grand. Someone might have found you a deal. You pay them three grand. You're 10 grand in before you've even started work. Then you've got something that people always forget - is your build. Your build costs - they will go up. No doubt, your time scales will be longer. When your time scales go longer, that means your holding costs are more. So something you have to take into consideration. And another great thing about 2Squared is we don't have holding costs. We just put the tenants straight in there. But holding costs - if you're doing a big development or you're doing loft extension or a normal extension - usually that works for about three, four months? You've got to pay gas, electricity, council tax for that entire time and it might not sound like a lot. But what if that goes to six months? What if your planning gets declined and it's now a year? You've got to hold that property whilst paying everyone. You've got to then pay all the holding costs as well. Not only that. When you sell, you've got capital gains tax. Capital gains tax is a tax against the gains that you make within a company. I believe it's around 20 percent. I don't know. This isn't my bag. You'll have to- you want to be speaking to tax advisors and all that sort of stuff anyway. And not just listening to me. Because everyone's situation is different but essentially - I think it might be 40 percent - I don't know. But there's loads of ways of mitigating your- your capital gains and having it in a company entity is the best way because you only pay on profit. So your accountant's going to give you loads of weird and wonderful ways. You're gonna put your t-shirts and your jumpers and all that sort of stuff that you wear everyday. You're gonna put it through as a uniform. And you're gonna put through watches and phones and cars and all that cool stuff - all your petrol trips away which are definitely, definitely business trips and yeah. You can put tons and tons of stuff through which basically what we want to do which is- which is completely opposite to what most people think is we want to be posting losses in our companies. Because in an ideal world, you put all the profits from a- from a flip into another flip into another flip into another flip - meaning you never really realize the profits. And- and that's what we want to do for an accountant purposes. So we've got- yeah- so just look into that. That's really important because obviously a deal can be ruined by a big tax bill. So how do you know if you found a good deal? Does the perfect deal exist? The perfect deal does exist to the person who wants the deal and you get them what they want. Make sense? A perfect deal to me is different to what a perfect deal is to you. So we can sit here looking at the 2Squared returns and go "Oh, fifteen percent's a bit rubbish." Someone in Hong Kong is looking at four percent for a London property or something like that. Like their- their return on investment is awful but they know they're gonna get capital. They're gonna get a capital appreciation. They're got multi-million quids over there. So then putting half a million -  a million pounds worth of cash into a deal. They just sit there and wait somehere to park their money whereas us we're like "Oh my God. I'd go and get 100 2Squared models and just make so much money every month." But let's just- different people have different requirements and we need to be so aware of that because- and just listen to your investors. Ask them "What is it that would- what is a perfect deal to you?" A lot of the time, they're going to be ridiculous so be careful. Something I would say actually: a really good tip. From my experience is don't talk about the top end so much. In terms of the returns, you're going to get investors because what you're going to do is the investor is going to come and go "25 percent return on investment. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. We can get those anywhere from 15 to 25." "All right. Well, I want 25 then." "All right, but they are quite rare. It might take us a bit of time." "I'm in no rush. I just want the 25." "Okay." And then, guess what the next one's going to say. And they're all gonna wait and they're not gonna be in a rush because they're gonna go "Well, why would I take 20 if there's the 25? I want that one. I want the best ones." So be careful. I always start with a minimum of 15 percent return on investment. You're setting expectations and when the expectations are set, you can increase and go "You know what? I've just found you a 20% ROI." They're gonna go bang! "Yes. Absolutely. I was expecting 15. You've just brought me 20." But guess what? If they're expecting 25 and you bring them 20, they feel like they're losing. So we've got to set expectations from the off. Do not tell them they're gonna get this big, fluffy amount of money because they will just wait. And I've been in that situation and it's really annoying. A good deal depends on the person. So they might look. And again, something I massively recommend - and I learnt this from my good friend, Mr. Samuel Spencer - about gross or net yields. "So what gross or net yields would you love, Mr. Investor?" "Well, I'd like a 10 percent net." That's high by the way. But then you need to ask "So what- what does a net yield look like? Can you- can you show me how you work out your yield?" Because a yield is based on the amount of- amount of income compared to the property price. So you could do a really simple 100 grand - I get a thousand pound a month in. However, some people will go "Well, yeah. The property is a hundred grand to purchase but actually I've got 10 grands off of fees on top of that. So I'll be doing a 110 grand divided by my 1000 pound a month to get my yield figure. So actually, your yield figure is wrong and it's not good enough for me. I don't want it." It could be including your cost. It could be excluding your costs. It could be including management costs. It could be excluding management costs. You see how very quickly- if one person has a really stringent yield figure and you're not, you can be very apart on a figure here. So let's make sure - and nobody's right or wrong by the way. Again, work it out entirely how you want to work it out but you have to explain it and be open and ask them how they want to do it because then you have to do the same to get that figure. Otherwise, you're going to go and find a deal and they ain't going to want it. The exact same with return on capital or ROI - they're going to have their own ways of working these things out. So make sure that you're in the right place. Return On Capital Employed - I like a lot because it tells you what it is. Return on Capital Employed is the Return on the Capital - the cash that you've had to put into a deal. What return percentage-wise do I get from that? So if you're leaving your fee from that return on capital then you haven't given them a true Return On their Capital Employed because they're employed capital that you haven't included in that figure. ROI is a little more broad than that. Again, which is why I like the ROC figure and most people know what it is. It's fairly simple. Potential Capital Growth. Some people may not be that bothered. They might come to you for a 2Squared model purely because they're investing in high capital growth potential. And something I will point out: capital growth. Again, when you're investing in your own stuff as well, nobody take Potential Capital Growth into consideration. It's an indicator and you go "You know what? That's consistently done it." However, the deal must always, always work on cash flow. Always work on cash flow. Never take a deal that's going to put 100 pound a month in your pocket because the capital growth might go up at some point. Because it might not and then you get one void, one boiler break, and you're knackered for a couple of years. Every deal we do without failure and where it is in the country must work for cash flow. So whether or now 2Squared works, whether or not we can put a family of four in a three and increase the income that way, we can go into HMOS. We can go into single lets. We can go into service accomodation. Absolutely anything we need to do to make that deal work. It could be city center Manchester which is booming right now. If you went and got that property and you said - or even now because it's probably going to go up - I don't know. I don't know too much about it but say it's going to double in the next 10 from your- your idea. You would want to go to an apartment and go "Okay, yeah. This is going to work. This is going to go up because it's right in the town center - right where we need to be. But I'm not going to make money in the moment." How I can be creative - ideally using the LHA models that we're teaching to increase and inflate the income - so that cash flow works form day one and I'm making money and I don't rely on the capital? So really important and I would say that to your investors too. But ultimately if they are happy with a crap return and a crap yield because they're willing to put all their eggs in one basket that the capital growth is going to go up be it on their head, that's not- that's not up to you. You provide what they want and- and receive the cash gladly. So rent to rent - it's been a huge strategy for me over the years. It's what I'm kind of known for which I'd love to get away from and be Mr. 2Squared because- yeah. Rent to rent is- so many people have ruined rent to rent by doing it badly. Crap courses - people just operating them really badly expecting them to be full all the time and they're not. Some of the deals I see out there are just so, so bad. However, the guys doing it right are making big money. And we're gonna-with the- the rent to 2Squared model is going to be huge because there's no real voids. The voids are really easily avoided. Void. Void. Void. Void. And- and that's why I love the strategy because there's just two tenants in an HMO. Oh my God! The turnover of tenants. You would not believe. And every time you have to go and clean the room and repaint the room because they've got shit all over it or they've broken the bed and you did not realize when they moved out. They're arguing with each other. They're refusing to take the bins out because there's six of them and they're going "Why should I do it every time?" They're leaving windows open, heating on- oh God. HMOs are just a nightmare, so yeah. I mean, they're great for cash flow but people look at the- when the full figures and they don't really look across the year 2-3. So we actually sold our- at one point, we had 17 rent to rent HMOs at our height and that was making us 15,000 pounds a month when full and that was rare realistically. We were always around the 10 grand a mark- 10 grand mark which was- which was great. But it took- I mean in terms of management - my-my older brother managed them full-time. He was full-time and it was a job. He was having to turn up to get rents. He was having to make sure he was on the case. He was having to go there to turn rooms around. It's tight. It's a really tough game and- and people make it seem like it's easy but it's- but it's absolutely not. Still, money to be made but you have to be really careful and they have to be an exceptional deal in my books to- to even consider. However, some of your clients might come to you and you go "You know what? The 2Squared sounds great in that but I'm actually looking for a rent to rent HMO. Go and find it." Something I'm going to teach you guys before we go super in depth into the tenant side of things is different ways in which we can monetise our business right now. What I don't want you to be doing is to get into the complications into the tenant side of this business and say no to opportunities. What I do want you to do is to learn what you need to learn in this initial first month - maybe six weeks. And- and then we're gonna get you making money. Six weeks before you get making money - it's not a long time. I want you to all be in the right position - the right place, mindset, ability to put yourself across to investors. The ability to put a deal across to a agent or a landlord to get this deal through. The ability to appraise a deal properly and know that your figures are right before we commit and start making money. Trust me. I want you to make money as much as you do because you know - that's one thing that's kind of backwards about this program is most people want their students making money in week one. I don't want you doing next, you're not ready. You're simply not ready and that money you make is going to cause you more headache and hassle because it won't be right. The investor won't be happy. Blah, blah, blah. And then you've ruined your- your name in the business already. We're here for long-term sustainable business. So, different types of rental rent. Rental rent, HMO - that's the classic. That's what everyone knows so we go and I mean- I in Surrey used to be able to get great uplifts. One of our properties was paying us £1,500 a month on one six-bed house. But what we were doing is converting them from a single layer. Problems that come with that are it needs a specialist HMO mortgage. They're likely to have a single buy to let. So you're going to have to get them to change mortgage product - becomes difficult to persuade. You then need a license. You've got to pay for the license. You then need to adhere to the licensing rules i.e. fire alarms, fire doors, intumescent strips for the fire doors, fire exits, signage, potentially emergency lighting. There is a bunch of stuff that come with HMO and running it and it is an extremely serious issue if you don't manage them correctly. If you- if there is a fire and people die in that HMO and you are found to have not been compliant to the rules, you will go to jail. So it is extremely important we've rented HMO that we get that right. And again, I wouldn't- I wouldn't be recommending any of you guys to get into it in terms of acquisition and keeping them yourself. I would be selling rent to HMOs instead. The best thing about rent to rent deals when you sell them is there's no long two month, three month completion like there is with buy to let. You agree the deal. It gets sold. They are in there. Potentially, the next day, you're paid. And once they're paid and they're in there, hands off. Done. Off you go. Enjoy it. Have fun. Move your job. Rent SA, again, another really big well-known strategy. I've tried - failed miserably with this one and in a big way. For those who don't know, I lost over sixty thousand pounds on one deal. It was a block of six flats, and yeah. It was the wrong area - the wrong type of flats. So there was a lot of one beds - they don't really work too well when you're doing rent to rent. The margins are too slim and you're competing with budget hotels. There's a load of downside to SA. Again, SA is going to create a business for you so if you want to source rent-to-service accommodation - wicked, wicked model - and I can certainly help you sell those if you need to. Same with the HMOs because they're you- rent-to-service accommodation works in most property types. You can even have big properties that will work on in certain areas so yeah - I'd avoid- I really would avoid doing it as a business because you need really robust systems and processes. You need staff. You need to make sure you've got the linen sorted. You've got your check-ins and checkouts are working. You've got a really good, good cleaners who are very hard to find at a good price. You need to make sure that the internet is working at all times. Make sure they are not having parties - we had police called on multiple occasions. There were 17 people who- who fraudulently acquired a credit card. I stole the credit card  and they were in there partying all night long smashing the TV, throwing glass out the window, gas canisters in there, cocaine, weed being smoked in there and we walked in with the police and they were simply let go. We then, obviously, 2 days later the payment for the booking came back is fraudulent and we lost all our money as well as the money we had to pay to get the flats back to what they were before. So we eventually had to quit our contract halfway through which meant that we had to pay the remaining term on it. So something in rent to rent people don't really realise is the commitment when you sign up to a commercial tenancy of 3 years, you are legally obliged to pay that for 3 years. So if you don't, you will get in trouble and be ordered to pay. Something people don't really realize unless you've got  a nice landlord who's like "yeah, fair play fill someone else in, there was a load of complications with ours. We were really good friends with her and essentially what happened was she wanted to - we nearly got off to another rental renter. He then pulled out, she said I'll sell it then so we couldn't rent it out single lets. That's what you normally do just go okay we'll put families in there and we'll cover our costs." Anyway, long story short, she eventually forced us to pay the amount so that cost us 60,000 pounds to get out of that mess. You live and learn not to say that it doesn't work, okay, it does. It does work and you can do it on a buy to let basis as well. There are load of capital you can claim a load of taxes back. It's fairly tax efficient if you do it right. However, is also VATable there are again ways around that using the Tom's scheme but yeah, for me, way too involved for my lifestyle business that I want. So I'm hoping you guys all agree and you're just gonna sell these to the stressed out people. You can always find a rental service or a service accommodation provider because they're always gonna be on forums and FaceBook bitching and moaning at people because they're always so stressed. And you got the rent to 2Squared or rent 2Squared which is obviously where we rent from the landlords and then we sub-let to our council tenants. To clarify, sub-letting is not illegal. Sub-letting is illegal only if the landlord is unaware that sub-letting is happening. We are making our landlords are fully aware that we are sub-letting. But yeah, obviously we've been through the benefits of 2Squared compared to those models. It's a singlelet property with no special mortgages for our guys know no real refurb, no furnishing, I mean, we used to spend £600 per room on furniture alone, a license was 650 Quid, the fire alarms systems were probably another 500. One house that we spent including the first month's rep was £10,000. The deals that we've just taken on recently will require us to pay less than £1,000 to get into and  they'll make our money we're back in 2 years, 2 months, not 2 years.
