What is Below Market Value or BMV? You are gonna hear this everywhere, always in all the groups. A load of investors are gonna say "Oh, we buying it BMV" and the difficult we have with the 2Squared model is it's the only real way of our client being able to refinance any money out in this strategy because it's a plus and negative in 2 different ways. So the 2Squared model is fantastic because we don't really need to do a refurb. Obviously I'm talking about above standard single let property that is just fine. We don't need to do anything. It may need a stud wall to make the extra room, you may need to do a little bit of decoration, it may need some new cupboards, whatever, you know, there can be very little changes that we need to make. Unless obviously you're going for a massive refurb - fire damage, or something that is really dilapidated that's gonna need a lot of work just to get it up to livable standard. That's a different kettle of fish that's not below market value that is adding value in terms of renovation so we can do that, no problem. It depends on your client. If your client wants to make big differences and big changes and they're willing to do a massive refurb which takes time. There's potential it could be a money pit, you never know what you're getting into with a refurb until you get in there. So one client - client A might say "yeah, I'm up for a really big challenge. I wanna turn this, you know, burnt down property into something that's livable and we'll use the 2Squared model at the end." Fine, it means they're gonna buy cheap but they're going to spend a lot on the refurb and then they're gonna be hoping for the refinance out. So what that means is obviously let's say, burnt property at 30,000 Quid. It needed a 40 grand refurb to get it to the level that was required 70 grand in but actually it gets value at a £100,000. That means they can pull all their money back out. That's a no money left in a deal. NM -I don't even know what I'm trying. No money left in deal and they're great but they are time consuming. There's other things you need to take into consideration with that - it's the time scales. They've put their money in. They need to have the money for the refurb. They then need to go through the refinancing options, etc. This could be a six to nine project with the standard ones we're looking at. Refurb. We're looking at maximum 10 grand tops and they're going to have a tenant in day one if we're clever and we can do it in the right way because what we'll do is we can get an exchange with a delay completion. It might be a month - give us a month so get the tenants in place and to be honest with this strategy, tenants move in on the day anyway. So they - you know - we want to make sure we get the right guys. That's the important bit and that's what might take the time but when they say yes, they're in. Straight away. Immediately. So there's no delay in that investor getting his money back. So someone's who's done all that work - six-nine months worth of work - compared to the guy who's gone and paid 70 grand for it up front because you might have got it below market value then gets a cash-producing asset straight away. So the benefit is, number one: you could pay the full asking price. Market value is 100 grand. He could pay the full whack but he's getting his money straight away. He's happy. He doesn't want to do big, long renovations and he wants to put his money into something can sit there, earning a good deal which might potentially have an upgrowth. Upgrowth? Made that one up. An uplift in value naturally over time which is also called capital appreciation. Below market value - so where does that sit? So again, we'e just discussed capital appreciation which is natural price increases in the property market through just time. You know, they used to say that property doubled in value every 10 years - it's slowed down massively. It's not that high. It can be in certain areas depending on what infrastructure goes in place but capital appreciation is a guess - none of us really know. You can make educated guesses. You know, something like the London properties and I'm way more likely to have capital growth than somewhere in the pits of the north. However, you can get all sorts going in to northern towns which are going to increase the value. So natural appreciation is one. Forced appreciation is number two and that's the example I used in terms of the dilapidated, burnt out property. We're adding value ourselves therefore forcing the value up because it's now worth nothing really. It's just a plot of land basically. It's burnt down property - can't be inhabited. We're gonna spend money on it - force the value up by making it a habitable property that somebody then values a £100,000 because it's somebody can live in it and use it and it has a value. So we force the value. So there's two options. The other option is below market value. This is not that it's advertised online at 100 grand and we've got it for 75 because the likelihood of that is that the value isn't a 100 grand - it's the agent that valued 100 and they are wrong. Otherwise, they would have sold a 100 and the offer wouldn't have been accepted at 75. So what we need to do to get a below market value offer -  generally speaking, this isn't always - but generally speaking, it's gonna be a direct to vendor situation. They're gonna be desperate for whatever reason. They have to move out because of debt, because of the bank chasing them, because of they're being threatened with - I don't know. It could be absolutely anything. It could be that their family moving abroad and they need to go as well but it's urgent. There's a million, million ways in which that someone would be willing to accept less to move. Sometimes, it's that they- it's not that they're struggling for money. It's that they found their dream home and if they don't buy it right now and they need 30, 40, 50 grand - not the 400 grand - they will- they go "Right. I need- I only need 50 grand so give me 75. It's worth 100. I need to go and buy that property. It's the place of my dreams and I want." Boom! Done. They don't care about the 25 because if the cost of that 25 grand is them losing their dream home. So they're a difference. It's hard to get your head around sometimes you're like "Why on earth would someone just not get the full ask in?" It's all about pace. Remember with us, we're dealing with investors and we can turn this around - month, six weeks -  we can get this property bought. That's hugely beneficial to someone who needs it quick. So direct to vendor, find out what they're stressed about - we can try and negotiate a below market value deal. This is the mecca. This is the dream for us 2Squared guys because what it means is not only are we uplifting the rents anyway with minimum refurb but actually we've just negotiated down the price. Eventhough we know it's valued at 100 grand, we've got it at 75. That means our investor comes along, goes "Okay. I've seen your- so what we need to do is get it valued by a Rick's surveyor." So that's a chartered surveyor who comes around and works at exactly what it's worth so we go "Yep. Okay. We've got this at 100. We've agreed at 75, Mr. Investor." He goes "Absolutely awesome! What I'm going to do is I'm going to get 75 grand in cash to purchase this. We'll get it through in four weeks." So now you've made your vendor happy as well. He buys it at 75 grand in cash. He then applies for a mortgage and gets the mortgage valuation in at a hundred grand. They go "Hi, Mr. Investor. Would you like to borrow up to 75 percent of that £100,000?" "Yes, please." All your money has been pulled out. And again, I'm being basic because there are other intricacies in terms of figures and fees but that is an example of a no money left in deal - NMLI. You will see that dotted around. No money left in deal because you have done well in negotiating. So we have forced appreciation where we spend money on the property or change the use of the property therefore making the property worth more money. We have natural appreciation - just naturally increases in value. But then we've also got the below market value which means our negotiation skills have added value to that deal therefore we've managed to negotiate a huge fee off of that price - off of the cost of that property for our investor. I would be charging more money in terms of a finder's fee if you could get anywhere near a 25 percent reduction - 100 percent. 100 percent. So this is why you're gonna - people asking "Are you getting like below market? Are you getting below market?" A lot of the time it's going to be "No. No, to be quite honest. We always negotiate on the price but ultimately if you tell me that you want a return on your capital of 20% or 15% and I find a property that is on the market for a £100,000 and it still gives you your 15% that you've asked for, I will negotiate. But if the only way of us getting that property is by paying an asking price, I'm going to pay it as long as it's genuinely valued at that price." What you don't want is for to pay a hundred grand and it's actually- Rick Scar comes out and goes "No. This is nowhere near. It's 85 grand." Because then you have a problem. But there's no reason for us using this strategy to not take an asking price deal if the figures work. It's all down to your investor and what they want. Some guys are gonna be greedy. Some are gonna want all their money back out - it's very rare to get. Some are gonna want and stipulate certain things and you can only do what you can do. Go out there. Give it a go for a month. Come back to him with your findings. "Look. We've got close. This happened. That happened. We found this. We found that. None of them have just quite been there so I think we need to have another chat and just figure out what's actually possible for us to find for you so that we can move forward and get your money working." And then just change the goal post a little bit until you find the deal that works for both of you. So just a quick one about below market value in case a lot of you have been confused and not sure what, just remember that just because you've got a discount from the asking price online does not mean it's not below market value because what you've probably just found is that you have paid market value. And like I say, there's no real problem with that. It's just people do it differently. Some- another mistake people make is that they will do- they'll say it's below- they'll say it's below market value after all the works and everything you've done because you've forced the appreciation so they'll say "You bought it at 20, spent 20, and now it's worth 100 therefore you've got it at 60 percent below market." It's not at all. You've just created forced the appreciation therefore created equity in that property. And for those who also don't know, equity is the amount of money left in a deal and that isn't mortgage. So if you've got a 75 mortgage, 25 of that is equity and you'll hear the equi ty a lot as well. So you make sure you understand the word equity. So I hope that helps. As always, any questions - bang them in the group. 